I started to develop this app because of the aquile reader from microsoft()Aquile Reader - Modern epub ebook reader, it would work great and had customizations and looked awesome, but i had two issues, i saw windows showcase and used it on android(they have that as well) I use linux. i wanted cross platform, while their app worked greate on windows it was just another microsoft whim (because they offered free premium during production and later introduced paid and ads(validate this online)), like what??! and i aim to recreate, great ui experience modern epub(while its still not complete I created this app not just for cs50x final but wanted to do this for a while and it was perfect ), i still have features to implement to call it decent epub reader and especially its an webapp i need to consider bit more things than a native application targeted for specific platform, while new frameworks like electron and tauri(which I planned to use before i found sveltekit and it integrates with it as well i thougnt lets create an webapp(because i had somewhat experience) and if i want i can do it with this later) exists for cross platform, i didn't want any more complex things for now and rust syntax was kind of terrifying (saw some code on router and stuff(tutorial) for backend before implementing ) and not electron because of community saying its memory hog (didn't really know, cause i use vscode and works fine) and i was beginner and wanted to avoid unwanted complexity. I then started with simple go auth tutorial from youtube(that doesnot look like current setup at all because i wanted more and more) it was simple go auth with login routes, signup route and one protected route that can be accessed with token when logged in(it gives http  and json body token on login). I then proceeded with sveltekit, created library page, login page, signup page, and a homepage. I then worked on minio(because its s3 compatible(don't know what s3 is i just wanted reliable storage solutino and easily back up on places and self host(becaue student and learner) and chatgpitty gave me this) and companies use this so if my app grew later, i won't regret this) i then learned some syntax and i was already appreciating go because minio has official go implementation that i can use with minio api and everything else is managed. I did this on minio docker image(I had some prior experience(mostly just tinkering on vm) on nginx(learned this because of curiosity on how to put and website online ) and portainer(docker container manager with web interface)). my first website was deployed like this with cloudflared tunnel with my free provided domain(saurabpoudel.com.np) which provided by Mercantile communications, to encourage digital adoption and online presence for Nepal. as Nepali citizen( student) i qualify to use this service for my studies. after the minio, came time to implement authentication for the frontend and backend, i struggled the most here. pretty sure its skill issue but i just coulnot figure sveltekit server side, frontend(client browser), and backend communication on tokens. issue was with tokens, requesting refresh from sveltekit(server) to backend server(sees and refreshes token) but the client browser had no idea the refresh token is used(and i delete used refreshtoken) and new access tokens is issued to sveltekit backend. I almost removed the refresh token implementation, but decide to integrate all to frontend (clientside browser) to refresh as well(don't know how secure this is). then i implemented the login/signup with google. i create oauth client on google cloud console and issued the js origin as my site and localhost for testing, and authorized callback url, it was fairly straightforward (i did struggle because it was new but chatgippity was helpful ) again appreciating my choice of go there is go/auth package to handle stuff kind of expected (because golang is googles created language). at this point i looked at my app and majority of my efforts were in backend, and frontend was just i left few weeks ago. and then i understood the meme, add a placeholder for this meme image (meme : backend developer staring at frontend developer who just changed the button to yellow). i couldnot see as a client what i did on backend myself. at this point i get what the primeagen (and netflix dev on youtube), he said when you develop your app you focus first on your core features which was for me its reading epub and it was not even implemented yet. but i donot regret my action/choice as i have understanding of cookies and basic auth, also i can use this exact go backend authentication for my future apps as well and since i wrote it myself i ca see what's goin on where in case changes required.you should be able to tell that i really enjoyed developing backend. I mostly used curl and scripts like "" for testing but i saw some dude doing something on the ui and it sent requests to backend and I was like na im good but my curiosity didn't let me so i used that as well for my testing(mostly playing around) it was postman, the first one on the go tutorial also used this but i ignored that time. I then implemented the booreader component which was my applications core feature. i then implemented dark mode and light mode. and its funny because i add one feature and suddenly something else is broken like here is my git commit message:
like when implementing smooth scrolling i broke the darkmode on epubjs, the issue was it was not changing theme, it would only change theme once loaded and on scroll to next page(that was epup rendering and i was applying theme on rendition after registering theme)this also took me a while. speaking of the git, i created project on july 5th( before that i was just consumed by what to use what frame work is good what's bleeding edge tech, what not to use and stuff but came across fireship's video and he was quite obsessed with svelte and just scoose sveltekit, as i like that youtuber lol) but my first commit was on 12th of july, almost week i didnot bother using git but i lost 6 hours worth of work to vscode crashing and not saving (doesnot save when it had errors and those were linter warnings and svelte unused css warnings). and then i started using git and staging my changes, I still dont get how git works and stuff but everytime i some changes i do git add . and commit it with message, and if its a proper fix pusht it to github, (i created a private repo for this project). git have saved me couple of times and i can simply go to any previous commit with git checkout and then see what i did there, also maybe i was too dependent on git i once serewed by using git reset --hard head to go to previous commit by ignoring all the unstaged changes(I lost them fortunately it was small change and learned lesson) because i thought i could do anytihing as long i have git i could go anywhere(my fault for not reading what i was doing). then i thought maybe lets produce it and put it on cloud. i already had domain and some knowledge about subdomains so used books.saurabpoudel.com.np. i added new entry on my cloudflare dashboard for subdomain. for the server, i have oracle free tier, with ubuntu server, and cloudpanel setup (I did all that myself previously , and i used my brothers credit card for the verification, which he allowed me to do so.). final step was creating docker container for my app. this was not on my original agenda but minio and postgresql were running on docker already and i thought maybe, i do all in a container and i did it, had to learn how to pass envs to docker for my google login api and sendgrid api, but ultimately it came together and now when i do docker-compose --env-file ./.env up --build -d it just goes live. my inner sveltekit server runs on 3000 but its internal, beauty of this is this doesnot interfere with my apps on other host ports on same port. and my apps entrypoint is nginx on port 4353, and localhost 4353 is where my app is, nginx forwards all requests to 3000(sveltekit) except for the requests with /api which goes to backend, and backend handles rest(uploading to bucked creating bucket for each user on signup authorizing and serving files and stuff). even with all this my frontend still feels like created on a day, feels like i spend soo much time on backend and not the core features but my backend is almost complete now, just few feature mainly, the forgot password, delete books and global epub store for store(I actually have no idea how i would implement this as i dont want my site to illegally distribute authors work, i only want to let users read the books that the authors themselves made available to read for free). and frontend have soo much to be done , i'll be doing page flipping animation, store, maybe ratings. i already had a client(my dad) and report that i should add languages options, and my dad wants to add his books(nepali, hindi and sanskrit) as he likes to read stories poems(ramayana, and puran'as) and i thought i could do this and should probably add the conversion or accept more formats (convert pdf's to eupub or sorts). overall this app was due many time ago and with the cs50x course, i gained the confidence, especially the data structures and sql, i never worked with databases and data structures made me realize i could do anything with data and the formats are just different in some way to fix/adderess certain scenarios. also i have found youtube creators for software developers incredibly helpful, and kind especially opensource software, sveltekit's discord. some youtube channels i watch(that kept me going for this project) : christian lempa(nextcloud/nginx), networkchuck(i learned docker/portainer bash and some ip address and subnetting he has courses on youtube crazy good and easy to follow), fireship, primeagen, low level, consulting ninja(for go backend fundamental auth), david bombal(enthusiastic for hacking), bro code (for c  concepts on earlier cs50x days ), free code camp, and many more
and i used sveltekit and its components. as per my choice even though it was not thoroughly planned I think it did save me lots of issues like gods protective hands, like svelte has built in csrf protection mechanisms and go had already minio and sendgrid implementations officially provided.